# Self - Assessment for Grace Gamstetter

Ihy is a project which is dedicated to generating musical melodies and harmonies through an interactive user experience. It will use Artificial Intelligence (AI) to analyze short melodic phrases and determine harmonizing phrases and pitches. It will allow users to specify desired high and low pitches, minimum and maximum note duration, and other user-defined specifications to create a unique song. It will provide an array of instrumental sounds, including at minimum guitar, drums, piano and bass. Ihy is a response to the growing need from the music industry for a composition assistant – a tool which will allow composers to experiment with different melodies and sounds at ease. If there is enough time in the project, Ihy will also have the capability of generating melodies both from scratch and from user-provided lyrics.

The coursework I’ve taken at the University of Cincinnati to prepare me for this project includes the following courses: Data Structures (CS2028C), Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS4071), Technical Writing (ENGL4092), Software Engineering (CS3093C), Artificial Intelligence (CS4033) and UC Symphony Orchestra (ENSM2091). Data Structures gave me the basic skills to store and retrieve data, which will be useful for traversing MIDI files. Design and Analysis of Algorithms provided me with the knowledge for mathematically analyzing code for logical validity, which will be applied to the algorithms used for music generation. Technical Writing was helpful in developing my written communication skills, which will be useful for creating technical documentation so that the project can be open-sourced and anyone can understand the mechanisms behind it. Software Engineering provided me with an in-depth knowledge of methods for developing software, specifically AGILE, which will be applied for developing Ihy. Artificial Intelligence provided useful background experience in AI which is utilized by this project. The UC Symphony Orchestra, an orchestra for non-CCM majors, was taken for four consecutive semesters and developed upon my previous skills in music theory and music analysis which shall be applied to the music theory - heavy algorithms.

I have completed two summer internships at the Kroger technology Center. One of these was in a Business Analyst role, where I got experience with project management and documentation. The other was in a Software Developer role, performing web development for an internally-used web application written in Angular Js. I’ve also completed three co-op rotations with Northrop Grumman as a Software Engineer, performing various tasks for them as needed. My vast experience with programming in different languages has given me mastery in quickly picking up new languages and technical skills as well as documenting project progress and requirements. I will use my experience in both companies towards the end goal of this project.

As a music lover, and an avid programmer, I’ve always wanted to connect music theory with computers. An ambition of mine for years has been to combine the two fields in a project, and I find that this is the perfect opportunity to satisfy my curiosity. It will also satisfy a problem which has been facing musical composers throughout time, which is that composing a masterpiece takes effort and a whole lot of time. Most composers don’t use a lot of time to create the melody of a song, but spend the majority of their time on the harmonizing pieces of the music. Ihy will allow them to put their main focus back on the sound of the melody by providing assistance for the detailed, time-consuming aspects of composing. The preliminary concept for the design is to develop a plugin for the popular open-sourced composing platform, musescore.

Musescore is a composing application similar to garage-band, in that it allows composers to play music virtually by creating musical scores online and virtually playing instruments concurrently. Because it’s an open-sourced application, there is much documentation for developers who wish to create a musescore plugin. The results of this project will be an open-sourced plugin which any developer can contribute to written for musescore, which will generate harmonies to any provided melody. If successful, this project approved for the official musescore repository and website download page. Each member will have contributed an equal amount of labor to complete the project. The project may be continued by the group after completion of the academic year.
