### Eric Henggeler
### Capstone Self-Assessment Essay

Our project, dubbed "Ihy" (named after the Egyptian god of music), is essentially an AI assistant for songwriters. Whether the songwriter knows the specifics on how to do their task and prefer to use our shortcuts, or they want to spice things up but don't know quite what they want, Ihy intends to assist with these things. For example, say a user wants to add a 3rd step harmony to a melody they've written. They probably know how to do this tedious task, but Ihy can do it faster. Another example is that the songwriter as a general structure for a song but they want it to be "funkier". Ihy can take their existing composition and add things like staccato or syncopation to the notes.

I have had many experiences in college to help prepare me for this project. I have had taken several courses to prepare me for this project. CS2028 Data Structures and CS4071 Algorithms Design and Analysis will be useful in writing and managing code, and EECE3093 Software Engineering and CS5127 Requirements Engineering will help me with structure and design of the code, as well as what requirements are more crucial than others. Finally, CS4033 Artificial Intelligence will help with the AI part of it, where all the magic happens.

My co-op experience with Siemens PLM Software will also help me through the course of this project. At Siemens, I learned many useful things. I learned how to source-control my code, as well as make improvements while limiting regressions. I learned how to work with a team with Agile development methodology. I also worked on a project from scratch with a team, starting with a proof of concept. This experience will have a critical role in my senior design process.

I am very excited for this project because I have been a music lover and maker for most of my life. I started to play drums when I was 7 years old and taught myself to play piano when I was 9. I always wanted to do something with music in my life. I played snare drum in the marching band for my high school and for UC. I have been a high school drumline instructor, writing original parts and exercises for my students. I also play piano on my own on a daily basis and often write my own songs. Music is a very big part of my life, but it's not my only passion. I really enjoy coding and creating cool software, so I am very happy I get to do both things at once and have it really count for something.
