*Thadeus Ross*

*Capstone Self-Assessment*

*Project Introduction*
We will be creating IHY, a music generation tool named after the Egyptian god of music. We want to give musicians the ability to procedurally generate music based on a set of parameters. The user will be able to generate the individual parts of a song separately, for example they could generate a bassline for an existing melody, or they can generate an entire original song. We are planning to use machine learning to generate authentic sounding music. We are planning to build the tool as a plugin for the open source music notation program Musescore. Users will be able to export the songs as midi files from Musescore to a digital audio workstation. This will allow the user to generate sheet music for live performances and digital inputs for electronic music production. 
*College Experiences*
Many my computer science classes will be helpful for this project. Data Structures (CS 2028) and Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS 4071) will be helpful when coding the tool. AI Principles and Applications (CS 4033) will be useful when incorporating machine learning. Software Engineering (EECE 3093) and Requirements Engineering (CS 5127) will help when planning the project. Technical Writing (ENGL 4092) will be useful when writing proposals and reports. Singing in the UC Men’s Chorus (ENSM 1081) and UC Cabaret Singers (ENSM 1082) have given me a good background in music theory.
*Work Experiences*
My most recent co-op positions was at Blubbry Podcasting, a startup that provides solutions for podcast creators. One my tasks was to create a tool that automatically inserted targeted advertisements into podcasts. I learned how to manipulate audio files programmatically and how to efficiently generate files based on user input. 
My first coop term was with Diebold Nixdorf. I worked as an intern setting up and testing ATM terminals. This job taught me how to locate and fix bugs. It is also where I received most of my experience working on large projects with a team.
*Motivation*
I have always been interested in music. I play four musical instruments and sing in several music groups. Jazz is my favorite genre to play because of its focus on improvisation and music theory. This project will incorporate elements of both musical improvisation and music theory. I am also interested in experimental electronic music. If this project is successful, the tool could be very useful for creating electronic music 
*Preliminary Approach*
My goal for this project is to allow a user to generate music that sounds good. This goal is very subjective, but music is also very subjective. There are a few metrics that we can use to judge the quality of the generated music, for example does the music follow the rules of music theory, but we cannot rely only on these metrics. To judge the success of the project we will need to get feedback from other people about our music’s quality. Other major goals for the project are more concrete. We want to be able to output music in sheet music and midi formats. We want to incorporate Machine learning into the project. We want to build a UI that is usable by a musician who is familiar with existing music writing tools.

